"SMART HOME AUTOMATION SYSTEM"
This system will be help ful to the elderly and disable people to control the electrical loads with voice and clap sounds.
This system is developed with the help of Arduino in TinkerCad and also with 8051 Microcontroller in Keil and Proteus softwares.
As tinkercad and proteus are not having an in built soundsensors, those are replaced with switch and push buttons,
In Tinkercad:-
  one push button is used to simulate the working of soundsensor for clap commands and another set of 4 push buttons are used to simulate the working of sensor for voice commands
    For clap command:-
      one pushbutton is used for this
      1 click on the push button sends the command to turn on the loads(i.e, 1 clap is made to turn on loads)
      another click on the push button sends the command to turn off the loads(i.e, another clap is made to turn off the loads)
    For voice commands:-
      4 push buttons are used here
      clicking on 1st button sends the command as 'light on'.
      clicking on 2nd button sends the command as 'light off'.
      clicking on 3rd button sends the command as 'fan on'.
      clicking on 4th button sends the command as 'fan off'.

In keil and proteus:-
  Firstly we have to complie the program using keil then connect the circuit as in the circuit diagram.
  here, for simulating the sound sensor to clap commands a switch is used in place of a sensor.
  1 click on the switch sends the command to turn on the light (i.e, 1 clap is made to turn on light)
  another click on the switch sends the command to turn off the loads(i.e, another clap is made to turn off the light)

  Now for simulating the sound sensor to voice commands a push button is used in place of asensor.
  1st click on the button sends the command as 'light on'.
  2nd click on the button sends the command as 'light off'.
  3rd click on the button sends the command as 'fan on'.
  4th click on the button sends the command as 'fan off'.

COMPONENTS REQUIRED:- in tinker cad
Arduino for tinkercad
led 
Dcmotor with relay in Tinkercad
9v battery in tinkers
5 push buttons
6 resistors
  1 330ohm resistor for led
  5 10kohm pull-up resitors
connecting wires

COMPONENTS REQUIRED:- in proteus
8051 Microcontroller for Proteus
Dcmotor with diode(1n007), 1kohm resistor and transistor(2n2222) in proteus.
led
switch
pushbutton
2 10k0hm pull-up resistors
220kohm resistor
power supply
ground 


